# Certain Factors May Predict Weight Fluctuations After GLP-1 Receptor Agonist Treatment

Zdroj: [https://www.rheumatologyadvisor.com/news/certain-factors-may-predict-weight-fluctuations-after-glp-1-receptor-agonist-treatment/](https://www.rheumatologyadvisor.com/news/certain-factors-may-predict-weight-fluctuations-after-glp-1-receptor-agonist-treatment/)

Longer treatment duration, using semaglutide, higher percentage body fat, and nondiabetic status may be associated with better weight reduction.

- There was a positive nonlinear association for serum creatinine with the probability of successful weight reduction within 12 months. “These findings may provide novel insights into the weight fluctuations after GLP-1 RA treatment in the real-world setting, thereby advancing the development of individualized strategies with GLP-1 RA therapy for patients with overweight or obesity,” coauthor Linong Ji, M.D., also from Peking University People’s Hospital, said in a statement.
- The researchers found that patients with a longer duration of GLP-1 RA treatment (odds ratio [OR], 1.014) and higher Homeostasis Model Assessment of β-Cell Function levels (OR, 4.912) were more likely to achieve successful weight reduction at 12-month follow-up.
- HealthDay News — For adults with overweight or obesity, certain factors might influence weight loss after taking glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs), according to a study published online July 9 in Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism.
- Jingxuan Wang, M.D., from Peking University People’s Hospital in Beijing, and colleagues conducted a retrospective cohort study to characterize weight fluctuation and influencing factors after GLP-1 RA treatment.
- There were J-shaped associations for basal metabolic rate, skeletal muscle mass, and abdominal and limb muscle mass with the probability of successful weight reduction within six months.
- Those with weight regain had a higher baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate at the three-month follow-up, especially for participants with prediabetes.
- In both male and female participants, a higher percentage body fat was associated with successful weight reduction (ORs, 3.990 and 2.266, respectively).
- Longer treatment duration, using semaglutide, higher percentage body fat, and nondiabetic status may be associated with better weight reduction.
