# Effects of Tirzepatide on Low-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Levels in Adults: A Systematic Review

Zdroj: [https://www.cureus.com/articles/390268-effects-of-tirzepatide-on-low-density-lipoprotein-cholesterol-levels-in-adults-a-systematic-review](https://www.cureus.com/articles/390268-effects-of-tirzepatide-on-low-density-lipoprotein-cholesterol-levels-in-adults-a-systematic-review)

Tirzepatide, a dual agonist of the glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptors, is recognized for its effectiveness in regulating glucose levels and promoting we

- Overall, tirzepatide may decrease LDL cholesterol and improve its lipid profile characteristics, especially at high doses (15 mg) and in individuals with metabolic risk factors; however, variability across studies and short follow-up periods limits the ability to draw definitive conclusions.
- A comprehensive search was conducted in the PubMed, EMBASE, and Web of Science databases through June 26, 2025, following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.
- However, the findings revealed heterogeneity, with younger individuals (i.e., those 64 years and younger) exhibiting larger reductions in LDL levels compared to older individuals (i.e., those 65 years and older).
- Tirzepatide, a dual agonist of the glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptors, is recognized for its effectiveness in regulating glucose levels and promoting weight loss.
- This systematic review aims to evaluate the current evidence on the impact of tirzepatide on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels in adult patients (i.e., individuals 18 years and older).
- This review found that high doses of tirzepatide were associated with moderate reductions in LDL cholesterol levels, accompanied by a 19% reduction and improvements in LDL particle size.
- The quality assessment was done using the Risk of Bias 2 tool (RoB 2, Cochrane Collaboration, London, UK) and the Risk of Bias in Non-randomized Studies of Interventions (ROBINS-I).
- Eligible studies included randomized controlled trials and observational studies in adults that reported LDL levels before and after receiving tirzepatide.
