# Weight loss drugs could be a gamechanger for women with a common hormonal disorder

Zdroj: [https://www.cnbc.com/2025/07/20/weight-loss-drugs-could-help-treat-pcos.html](https://www.cnbc.com/2025/07/20/weight-loss-drugs-could-help-treat-pcos.html)

Wegovy injection pens arranged in Waterbury, Vermont, US, on Monday, April 28, 2025.Shelby Knowles | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesFor well over a decade, Grace Hamilton, 27, experienced hair loss, heavy pe

- Sipes said those results significantly improved her emotional health."All the symptoms and being overweight might not seem like big things, but when you have 20 little things that are constantly nagging you, then you're going to be in a bad mood sometimes," Sipes said. "I'm just a better version of myself when I'm not controlled by food thoughts and hormonal issues that cause mood swings," she continued. "My life does feel so much more enjoyable."Sipes plans to continue taking Zepbound to maintain her results, possibly at lower doses.
- Tang added that diet and exercise alone often fall short of addressing symptoms: "A lot of people can exercise very aggressively and regularly or watch what they eat and still struggle with hormone imbalances, weight, and blood sugar."Haley Sipes a patient with PCOS taking GLP-1s.Courtesy: Haley SipesThat was the case for Haley Sipes, a 31-year-old mother of three based in Western Kentucky who experienced PCOS symptoms for years without a diagnosis.
- Treating PCOS is among several new but unapproved potential uses of the blockbuster drugs beyond promoting weight loss and regulating blood sugar.Grace Hamilton, a patient with PCOS talking GLP-1s in Galway, Ireland.Courtesy: Addison PeacockPCOS, which is frequently underdiagnosed, affects an estimated 5 million to 6 million women of reproductive age in the U.S., according to some estimates.
- After 10 months on the treatment, Hamilton lost 50 pounds, saw hair regrowth and reported significant improvements in depression and anxiety"I'm so glad that I stuck with it because it was just clear as day that it was the missing link for me," said Hamilton, who works at a nonprofit in Arvada, Colorado, adding that she maintained diet and exercise while on the drug.
- They can also be produced on a case-by-case basis when it's medically necessary for a patient, such as when they can't swallow a pill or are allergic to a specific ingredient.But Novo Nordisk, Eli Lilly and some health experts have pushed back – and in some cases, taken legal action – against the practice, largely because the FDA does not approve compounded drugs.
- In April, President Donald Trump rejected a Biden administration plan that would have required Medicare and Medicaid to cover obesity drugs.Nabeelah Karim is a patient with PCOS who took GLP-1s to manage her symptoms.Courtesy: Nabeelah KarimSome patients, like 34-year-old California mom Nabeelah Karim, have turned to other options.
- She is currently appealing her insurer's denial of semaglutide now that she has completed Cree's trial. "My whole life has been an inability to access care for my medical condition, and I'm tired of that," she said. "If somebody would have been able to provide 11-year-old Grace with this drug, that would have saved me."
- Melanie Cree, a pediatric endocrinologist at Children's Hospital Colorado. "Primary therapies used for PCOS symptoms haven't changed in nearly 50 years."Cree, who is also a professor at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, has been studying the effect of GLP-1s in adolescents with PCOS for more than 10 years.
