# GLP-1 Drugs Fail to Provide Key Weight-Loss Benefit

Zdroj: [https://newsroom.uvahealth.com/2025/07/21/glp-1-drugs-fail-to-provide-key-weight-loss-benefit/](https://newsroom.uvahealth.com/2025/07/21/glp-1-drugs-fail-to-provide-key-weight-loss-benefit/)

Doctors may need to recommend exercise programs or develop other approaches, such as nutrition supplements or complementary medications, to help GLP-1 patients get the full cardiorespiratory benefits 

- In some cases, this is because the person lacks muscle mass; in others, a person may have enough muscle, but the quality of that muscle is compromised by fat that has penetrated it. “Cardiorespiratory fitness is a potent predictor of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality risk across a range of populations, including obesity, diabetes and heart failure,” said Angadi, a cardiovascular exercise physiologist with UVA’s Department of Kinesiology. “In a recent study by our group that examined mortality outcomes from almost 400,000 individuals across the world, we found that CRF was far superior to overweight or obesity status for predicting the risk of death.
- But doctors may need to consider recommending exercise programs or develop other approaches, such as nutrition supplements or complementary medications, to help GLP-1 patients get the full cardiorespiratory benefits of substantial weight loss over the long-run, the researchers say. “Some patients literally told me that they felt that they were losing muscle or muscle was slipping away from them while they were on these medications,” said researcher Zhenqi Liu, MD, Professor of Medicine and James M.
- The American Diabetes Association recommends screening for malnutrition and low muscle mass risk before starting these medications and promoting adequate protein intake and regular exercise throughout treatment.” “Finally,” Angadi added, “exercise training during GLP1 therapy remains to be assessed in its ability to preserve or improve VO2max during GLP1 therapy.” Findings Published The researchers have published their findings in JCEM, the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism.
- They note, however, that there are promising signs that we may be able to develop medications to help, such as a monoclonal antibody already in the pipeline that may be able to offset lean-muscle loss. “This is an area of active research, and we are hopeful that better solutions are coming soon,” Liu said. “But for now it is important that patients prescribed GLP-1 drugs have conversations with their healthcare providers about strategies to preserve muscle mass.
- Ensuring Healthy Weight Loss The researchers ultimately conclude that GLP-1 drugs “significantly reduce body weight and adiposity, along with a substantial FFM [fat-free mass] loss, but with no clear evidence of CRF enhancement.” They remain concerned that this could take a toll on patients’ metabolic health, healthspan/frailty and overall longevity.
- This is why it’s so important to understand the effects of this new class of drugs on it.” In their review of the available medical literature, the researchers found that GLP-1 drugs improve certain measures of heart function, yet those improvements don’t translate into significant improvements in VO2max.
- Angadi, PhD, Associate Professor of Kinesiology at UVA’s School of Education and Human Development, wanted to better understand the potential long-term consequences of this muscle loss, so they reviewed available data on the drugs’ effects on cardiorespiratory fitness, or CRF.
- The researchers emphasize that weight loss associated with GLP-1 drugs has many clear health benefits for people with obesity, type 2 diabetes and heart failure, including improving blood-sugar control, short-term cardiorenal benefits and improvements in survival outcomes.
