# What you need to know about the compounded GLP-1 ban

Zdroj: [https://www.nebraskamed.com/health/healthy-lifestyle/bariatrics-weight-loss/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-compounded-glp-1](https://www.nebraskamed.com/health/healthy-lifestyle/bariatrics-weight-loss/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-compounded-glp-1)

If you’ve been using semaglutide (found in Ozempic® and Wegovy®) or tirzepatide (Zepbound® or Mounjaro®) to manage your blood sugar or weight, you’ve likely heard about new changes in how these medica

- They were usually cheaper and easier to get, but there were concerns about how they were made and whether they were safe and effective for long-term use. “Due to the production and supply chain issues with these drugs, people were allowed to use non-FDA-approved clones,” says Nebraska Medicine bariatric surgeon Cori McBride, MD. “Pharmacies in other countries bought the drugs and reverse-engineered them as a short-term solution.
- If you’re in a maintenance or plateau phase, other medications may help sustain your progress or prevent weight gain.Some people who started with GLP-1 medications are now exploring surgical options as a more lasting solution.“These medications helped people take obesity seriously as a chronic condition,” says Dr.
- This can only be done if there are shortages in the United States.”The FDA officially announced that the shortage is over, meaning pharmacies must stop making and selling compounded medications.“Once the shortage ended, the FDA made it clear that these clones are no longer allowed,” Dr.
- When combined with exercise and a healthy diet, they have been life-changing for many people with obesity and/or type 2 diabetes.What are compounded GLP-1s?Many people turned to compounded versions during the nationwide shortage of brand-name prescription medications.
- They help regulate hunger and fullness.If you’re interested in exploring surgical options, your health care provider can refer you to a bariatric specialist, or you can reach out directly to the Bariatrics Center at Nebraska Medicine.
- McBride. “More insurance plans are covering FDA-approved medications now than before.” If your insurance doesn’t cover the injectable pens, some patients may save money by getting medications in vials and using syringes instead.
- McBride continued. “They were never truly generics, and pharmacies can’t label them as brand-name medications.”Why this mattersCompounded GLP-1s weren’t held to the same quality or safety standards as the brand-name versions.
- If you’ve been using semaglutide (found in Ozempic® and Wegovy®) or tirzepatide (Zepbound® or Mounjaro®) to manage your blood sugar or weight, you’ve likely heard about new changes in how these medications are made and sold.
