# Exclusive: Serena Williams opens up about her weight-loss journey on a GLP-1

Zdroj: [https://www.womenshealthmag.com/uk/fitness/fat-loss/a65862142/serena-williams-weight-loss-glp1-ro/](https://www.womenshealthmag.com/uk/fitness/fat-loss/a65862142/serena-williams-weight-loss-glp1-ro/)

With 23 Grand Slam singles titles and four Olympic gold medals, Serena Williams is undeniably a superathlete.

- The tennis star says she can finally see the effects of all her hard work at the gym—plus, her body feels less strain while training since she’s carrying less weight. “My joints are a lot better,” she says—and that's despite all the running she’s been doing lately to prepare for an upcoming half marathon. "I am running farther than I ever have." Her health is benefiting too: “I just had my checkup, and the doctor said everything—including my blood sugar levels—looked great.”Sage East / Ro For anyone contemplating a GLP-1 who’s been hesitant given the stigma that it somehow undermines personal effort, Serena assures that couldn't be further from the truth. "Being on a GLP-1 definitely doesn’t take away from who I am as a professional athlete.
- But her first go-around with the medication didn’t quite stick. “I was a bit nervous and had too many unanswered questions,” she says of taking a pause.In January of this year, she started anew, this time with telehealth company Ro. (Her husband, Alexis Ohanian, is also an investor in Ro and serves on its board.) “It was a lot easier of an experience with Ro,” Serena says. “Doctors were able to answer my questions, no matter how silly or crazy.” And with her hectic travel schedule, she appreciated that support was just a click away, rather than having to schedule an in-person appointment at an office.
- But I was never able to lose weight, and that was really frustrating for me.”What to Read NextSerena recalls a trip to Paris, in particular, during which she routinely walked 20,000 to 30,000 steps per day—partially because she loves strolling Paris (who doesn’t!?) and partially because she was trying to get fit.
- Fans got a small glimpse into this side of the tennis star’s journey in her 2018 HBO documentary Becoming Serena.“At one point my coach says, ‘You need to lose weight,’” Serena tells Women’s Health. “I was eating extremely healthy and I was working out really hard because I know what it takes to be number-one.
- That’s when Serena came to a realisation, she says: “I have to try something different.” She started researching weight-loss medications, but as she more seriously contemplated taking a GLP-1, she found herself hesitant due to the stigma surrounding the drugs—that they’re some kind of shortcut or cop out.
- Serena is now officially partnering with Ro as a celebrity patient ambassador (she began as just a regular client) to help bust the stigmas that might be holding others back from exploring their health options. (Serena did not disclose which specific medication she is on.
- As a top athlete, she felt the scrutiny would be extra intense. “I am a very good use case of how you can do everything—eat healthy, work out to the point of even playing a professional sport and getting to the finals of Wimbledon and U.S.
- As a result of the extra weight, she was experiencing strain on her joints every time she ran down a ball. “In a sport like tennis, you’re putting hundreds of pounds of strain on your joints per movement, per time,” she says.
