# The new generation of weight loss drugs: The pros and cons of GLP-1s

Zdroj: [http://uknow.uky.edu/uk-healthcare/new-generation-weight-loss-drugs-pros-and-cons-glp-1s](http://uknow.uky.edu/uk-healthcare/new-generation-weight-loss-drugs-pros-and-cons-glp-1s)

Douglas Cliff, iStock Editorial/Getty Images Plus The University of Kentucky Public Relations and Strategic Communications Office provides a weekly health column available for use and reprint by news 

- These include: Gallstones and gallbladder issues, thought to be caused by rapid weight loss Pancreatitis — studies have shown a higher risk for this condition while taking GLP-1 medications compared to other weight loss medications Gastroparesis (delayed stomach emptying) — though these medications are designed to slow down digestion, if it slows down too much, it can lead to other symptoms and complications.
- It serves several functions, including: Triggering your pancreas to release insulin, which lowers blood sugar Suppressing glucagon, a hormone that raises blood sugar Slowing down your digestion Increasing your feelings of fullness after eating GLP-1 medications mimic this natural hormone by binding to GLP-1 receptors in the body, and they are intended to be used alongside a healthy diet and exercise.
- A recent New England Journal of Medicine study showed that although both these new drugs are highly effective, tirzepatide was shown to be more effective for weight loss, possibly because of the combination of these two hormone agonists when compared to the single hormone agonist in semaglutide.
- Our educators and thought leaders are transforming the health care landscape as our six health professions colleges teach the next generation of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other health care professionals, spreading the highest standards of care.
- It also is the home of the state’s only National Cancer Institute (NCI)-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, a Level IV Neonatal Intensive Care Unit that cares for the tiniest and sickest newborns and the region’s only Level 1 trauma center.
- Kidney damage, typically resulting from dehydration caused by other side effects A potential risk of thyroid cancer — animal studies have shown an increased risk for thyroid C-cell tumors, though that risk has not yet been confirmed in humans.
- LEXINGTON, Ky. (Aug. 18, 2025) – You’ve likely heard about glucagon-like peptide-1 agonists — commonly referred to as GLP-1 medications, and more widely recognized through pharmaceutical brand names like Ozempic and Mounjaro.
- Since then, several others have followed, including dulaglutide (Trulicity), liraglutide (Victoza, Saxenda), semaglutide (Ozempic, Wegovy), and the latest FDA-approved medication, tirzepatide (Mounjaro, Zepbound).
