# GLP-1RAs Linked With Improved Survival in Patients With Cancer and T2DM

Zdroj: [https://www.renalandurologynews.com/news/cancer-diabetes-t2dm-glp-1ra-improved-survival-patients/](https://www.renalandurologynews.com/news/cancer-diabetes-t2dm-glp-1ra-improved-survival-patients/)

For patients with cancer and type 2 diabetes (T2DM), use of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) may provide a similar survival benefit as sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGL

- The E-value was 1.21 for GLP-1RA vs SGLT2i and 2.73 for GLP-1RA vs DPP4i. “While causality cannot be inferred, our study adds novel evidence on the comparative effectiveness of GLP-1RAs,” Dr Guo’s team wrote. “Clinical trials are needed to confirm the role of GLP-1RAs in cancer survivorship.” Disclosure: One study author declared affiliations with biotech, pharmaceutical, and/or device companies.
- For patients with cancer and type 2 diabetes (T2DM), use of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) may provide a similar survival benefit as sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) and better survival chances compared with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP4i).
- However, GLP-1RA users had significantly lower all-cause mortality risk compared with DPP4i users (HR, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.51-0.70) with a consistent trend across age, sex, non-Hispanic White race, and several cancer types (colorectal, lung, and breast).
- So Jingchuan Guo, MD, PhD, of the University of Florida College of Pharmacy at Gainesville, and colleagues decided to investigate the relationship between glucose-lowering agents and all-cause mortality among patients with cancer and T2DM.
- Using 2013-2020 Medicare data, the investigators identified patients aged 66 years and older with T2DM and 1 of 9 cancers (thyroid, pancreatic, bladder, colorectal, lung, kidney, breast, endometrial, or prostate).
- The GLP-1RA vs SGLT2i analysis showed no significant difference in all-cause mortality risk among patients with these cancers (HR, 1.03; 95% CI, 0.85-1.23), Dr Guo’s team reported in JAMA Network Open.
- Cancer progression has been linked with high glucose, adiposity, insulin resistance, and systemic inflammation.
- They propensity-score matched 2500 pairs of patients taking GLP-1RA vs SGLT2i or DPP4i.
