# Does Using GLP-1 Drugs, Like Zepbound or Wegovy, Increase Your Risk of Thyroid Cancer?

Zdroj: [https://news.cuanschutz.edu/cancer-center/glp-1-drugs-thyroid-cancer](https://news.cuanschutz.edu/cancer-center/glp-1-drugs-thyroid-cancer)

The FDA advisory on GLP-1s specifically mentions medullary thyroid cancer.

- For my differentiated thyroid cancer patients, I say, “If you're obese, your metabolic health is going to cause more harm than an indolent thyroid cancer.” There is research that shows that even if you slightly increase the thyroid cancer risk, you decrease the overall risk of all types of cancer if you reduce somebody's weight and get them to a metabolically healthier weight.
- There have been several studies that show no increased risk for differentiated thyroid cancer, but some of the most recent studies — metanalyses of randomized control trials of GLP-1 agonists vs. a non-GLP-1 agonist —show that overall, thyroid cancer is increased in people who take GLP-1s.
- If you have medullary thyroid cancer or genetic testing that puts you at risk for thyroid cancer, or you have a family member who has medullary thyroid cancer, they say you shouldn't use these drugs.
- I'm doing research on the GLP-1 connection with papillary right now, because I see patients with thyroid cancer who have obesity and they're at high risk for recurrent thyroid cancer.
- The research doesn't, unfortunately, parse out whether it's differentiated or medullary, but we know the most common type of thyroid cancer, by far, is differentiated.
- There was a French study about a year ago that showed increased risk specifically in papillary thyroid cancer, which is the most common differentiated thyroid cancer.
- Medullary thyroid cancer makes up maybe 3% of all thyroid cancers, so it's a very small proportion, but that's the one you see the warnings about in the commercials.
- That came out of animal model studies, where they gave large amounts of these drugs, and the animal model would get what's called C cell hyperplasia.
