# tirzepatide (Mounjaro) Archives - Juta MedicalBrief

Zdroj: [https://www.medicalbrief.co.za/tag/tirzepatide-mounjaro/](https://www.medicalbrief.co.za/tag/tirzepatide-mounjaro/)

ADVERTISE WITH US
Every week your advertisement will reach more than 48,000 South African health professionals, of whom around 37,000 are medical and dental practitioners in the state and private sectors. Download our rate card: Click Here
With South Africa’s court system increasingly burdened by lengthy delays, the South African Law Reform Commission (SALRC) is rightly exploring… [More]
Experts are urging screening and monitoring for eye disease for all patients on GLP-1 receptor agonists, after a large retrospective… [More]
Scientists have suggested that lipids could play a role in Alzheimer’s, their study indicating a possible causal link between the… [More]
Recent research found an alarming 6% drop in tumour detection rates when doctors performed procedures without artificial intelligence (AI) assistance,… [More]
Political will, free maternity care and digital health tools have helped Botswana achieve high standards for ending mother-to-child transmission, the… [More]
The American Heart Association (AHA) has recently revised its guidelines on hypertension, the leading risk factor for stroke and various heart… [More]
The off-label use of ketamine to treat chronic pain is not supported by scientific evidence, a Cochrane review has found,… [More]
In a historic milestone in regenerative medicine, Tel Aviv University in Israel is to perform the world’s first human spinal… [More]
Patients using GLP-1 drugs are reporting a complication not listed among the drug’s most common side effects, according to some experts,… [More]
A three-year-old is on the mend after high stakes surgery to remove a tumour involving the brainstem, thanks to Professor… [More]
Various cities in the United States are retreating from “harm reduction” strategies that have helped reduce deaths but which critics,… [More]
MedicalBrief is Africa’s authoritative weekly digest of medical matters, both on the continent and around the world. It brings you a succinct summary of the latest developments, both in news and research, with links to the original material.
