# Pfizer's embattled obesity program loses another GLP-1 over poor data and strong competition

Zdroj: [https://www.fiercebiotech.com/biotech/pfizers-embattled-obesity-program-loses-another-glp-1-drug](https://www.fiercebiotech.com/biotech/pfizers-embattled-obesity-program-loses-another-glp-1-drug)

Pfizer's beleaguered obesity strategy has hit another setback as the pharma jettisoned its third and final GLP-1 agonist, citing poor data and tough competition.

- When asked whether PF-06954522 encountered similar liver problems to those seen with lotiglipron or danuglipron, a spokesperson told Fierce that the decision to end development “was not related to any safety concerns that arose in the phase 1 program.” Instead, Pfizer made the call “following a review of data from its phase 1 program and the GLP-1 landscape.”“We continue to apply our global capabilities to advance a pipeline of investigational treatments that have the potential to fill critical gaps in patient care for cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, including obesity,” the spokesperson said.
- In a sign that Pfizer's in-house setbacks mean the company may have to look elsewhere to regain a competitive position in the fast-moving obesity race, the spokesperson added that the pharma will “also continue to evaluate external opportunities to complement our internally discovered and developed molecules.” In the company's second-quarter earnings call today, CEO Albert Bourla, Ph.D., explained that obesity and cardiometabolic disease remains an active area for Pfizer, alongside oncology, vaccines and internal medicine.
- Discussing the asset later that year, Pfizer’s chief scientific officer at the time, Mikael Dolsten, told analysts that the company was “building a platform” around GLP-1 and had “a pretty strong effort here.” But Pfizer's obesity strategy soon ran into some liver-related problems.
- Talking to investors on an earnings call in February, Pfizer's current chief scientific officer Chris Boshoff, M.D., Ph.D., suggested the molecule could form part of a fixed-dose combination with danuglipron—but that door has now closed.
- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data cited by Pfizer, it’s easy to see why the company isn’t willing to give up on its ambition of getting the first vaccine for primary or recurrent C. difficile infection to market.
- Related A phase 2 trial has already shown that this updated vaccine resulted in a four-fold increase in functional toxin-neutralizing antibody titers compared to PF-06425090, according to this morning’s presentation slides.
- The pharma used its earnings presentation to highlight to investors that it has been working on a new formulation of the vaccine to produce a next-gen candidate that it hopes to take into phase 3 later this year.
- We will pay the real value that the asset deserves.” The story is more positive for PF-06425090, Pfizer’s C. difficile vaccine that has also been discontinued, according to the company’s pipeline update.
