# Serena Williams Lost 31 Pounds With GLP-1 Drug: EXCLUSIVE

Zdroj: [https://www.today.com/health/womens-health/serena-williams-glp-1-weight-loss-rcna226141](https://www.today.com/health/womens-health/serena-williams-glp-1-weight-loss-rcna226141)

Serena Williams has been taking a GLP-1 medication to help with her recent weight loss, she revealed for the first time in an exclusive TODAY interview on Aug. 21.The 23-time Grand Slam champion share

- I understand that there are lots of side effects, I just didn't have any," she says.Reflecting on her health goals when starting a GLP-1, she also points out that African Americans have an increased risk of diabetes. "(It's) definitely around in my family, and I really wanted to just look deeper," she explains.Williams' hope for the multiyear campaign is to normalize use of GLP-1 medications for weight loss and help others live healthier lives, according to a press release."A misconception is that it's a shortcut," she says. "As an athlete and as someone that has done everything, I just couldn't get my weight to where I needed to be at a healthy place — and believe me, I don't take shortcuts."Still, she battled the stigma around taking a medication to lose weight. "I definitely had struggles because, I mean, I believed it too," she says. "But with Ro, I could easily just ask all the questions, and ...
- I didn't have to worry about it, and not have to feel like someone was looking at me sideways."Appearing on the 3rd Hour of TODAY, Williams said that she wanted to come forward because "a lot of people are actually on GLP-1s but don't really want to talk about it, don't want to say it.""That's why I feel like my story is so important — because I'm so active," she adds.Asked if she sees herself staying on the medication long-term, she says yes. "I feel like, after having my kids, my body was missing something.
- Serena Williams has been taking a GLP-1 medication to help with her recent weight loss, she revealed for the first time in an exclusive TODAY interview on Aug. 21.The 23-time Grand Slam champion shared her decision to take a weight loss drug following the birth of her second daughter as part of her partnership with health care company Ro, for which she is a paid spokesperson.She tells TODAY.com that she has lost 31 pounds since starting the medication about a year ago.
- In addition to facilitating weight loss, these medications are also approved to treat diabetes because they trigger the release of insulin by the pancreas.GLP-1 medications are usually prescribed for either obesity or diabetes, and lifestyle changes, such as to exercise and diet, are usually recommended to patients as well.Maura HohmanMaura Hohman is Assistant Managing Editor for TODAY.com and has been covering health and wellness since 2015.
- I don't know if it's something that the GLP-1 has, but I just feel normal again."Williams and her husband, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian, are parents to two daughters, Olympia, 7, and Adira, 2. (Ohanian is an investor in Ro and serves on its board.)Serena Williams says GLP-1 medications helped her lose 31 pounds.Courtesy RoGLP-1 drugs, also known as GLP-1 agonists, work by mimicking a hormone that the body produces after eating.
- She has not disclosed which kind."I was on and off (the medication) and now completely on," she says. "It was a really good decision I had to make for my life, you know, I tried everything.""This all started after I had my (first) kid," she continues. "As a woman, you go through different cycles in your life. ...
- At a recent doctor's visit, she was told her blood sugar levels have normalized, and she says her joints feel "lighter, like they're not taking as much of a load.""I had a lot of knee issues ... especially after I had my kid (and) was never able to get to my normal levels of weight.
- She would regularly hit 20,000 steps a day, too.Serena Williams, Ro's new celebrity spokesperson, poses with a GLP-1 medication.Courtesy RoSince starting the medication, she says she's already seen and felt her health improve.
