# Influencers Are Hawking ‘GLP-1 Patches’. Do They Work?

Zdroj: [https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-features/glp1-patches-influencers-ozempic-1235403902/](https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-features/glp1-patches-influencers-ozempic-1235403902/)

Modern Medicine These new supplemental products are offering similar benefits to drugs like Ozempic — but experts say it may be a placebo effect Allie Hargens first started trying to lose weight when 

- Dominguez, though given their price point, she can understand why people would want to give them a try. “I would recommend not spending any money on these because I don’t think they’re going to do anything meaningful,” she says. (The primary ingredient in the GLP-1 shots is semaglutide, an ingredient that is not present in the patches.) Editor’s picks When reached for comment, a representative for Kind Patches said that though they stood behind their product, they may not be universally effective. “While we’d love to guarantee that our patches work for everyone, it’s important to note that individual responses to any supplement or product, including our patches, can vary based on a person’s unique physiology, lifestyle, and specific sleep-related issues,” they said.
- Lagano stopped taking Tirzepatide and turned to the GLP-1 patches to maintain her weight. “My weight has stayed steady,” she says. “I don’t know if it’s in my head or if it really is something that’s helping, but I’m not going to stop wearing them.” Hargens, the 34-year-old who’s long struggled with her weight, is similarly unbothered by the concept of her experience with the patches being chalked up to the placebo effect. “I don’t see that as a bad thing, even if it’s just in your mind.”
- Morales says that sometimes people accuse her of only promoting products, including the patches, to make money. “But I only promote products that have worked for me,” she says. “There will always be negative comments and opinions, but you just have to work through it.” In the comments of TikTok videos, users share their own experiences with the patches, testifying that they’re eating less and losing weight. (Dr.
- In July, Morales bought a pack of patches through an influencer’s TikTok Shop and found that, when wearing them, she wasn’t eating as much as usual. “I didn’t really want to keep snacking like I used to,” she says. “It feels like you have control of your life.” Before, Morales was on a constant seesaw of overeating and then starving herself.
- Modern Medicine These new supplemental products are offering similar benefits to drugs like Ozempic — but experts say it may be a placebo effect Allie Hargens first started trying to lose weight when she was in the sixth grade, going on the grapefruit diet, a fad diet that entails eating grapefruit at every meal.
- Trending Stories In addition to using the patches herself, Morales, like many of the people making content about the efficacy of the patches, is now selling them through TikTok Shop. “I sell hundreds a day,” she says, estimating that she makes between $200 and $300 every day on commission.
- Stephanie Morales, a 40-year-old who lives in Wisconsin, had previously taken a GLP-1 shot for weight loss and experienced success, but her prescription was expensive and she worried about being dependent on the medication. “I’m nervous with shots and stuff like that.
- Alyssa Dominguez, an endocrinologist at the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine. “The doses are super off compared to anything that was in research studies, like they were giving people 8,000 times the dose of what is in the patch,” she says.
