# Taking GLP-1s for weight loss? Here’s why strength training is key

Zdroj: [https://www.cnn.com/2025/08/18/health/glp1-muscle-loss-strength-training-wellness](https://www.cnn.com/2025/08/18/health/glp1-muscle-loss-strength-training-wellness)

Before beginning any new exercise program, consult your doctor.

- All this planning may sound like a lot of work, but there is good news, Ward said. “It can be hard to see you need to put some thought into this, when the medication is doing all of the work,” Ward said. “But those who never used to exercise, or exercise regularly, can really see significant gains in their bodies.” Since the use of GLP-1s for weight loss is a new practice, more studies will be needed to determine how to best help the people using them, Shah said, especially when it comes to specific recommendations for exercise, nutrition and the building of lean muscle mass. “We do not have good data to say ‘X’ type of exercise or amount is going to give the best results,” Shah said.
- As a result, your strength training should begin with a lower intensity than the average person, and your progression to heavier weights should be more gradual. “We recommend shorter sessions to accommodate nausea or fatigue,” Wenger said. “We also focus on complex dynamic movements like squats and dead lifts more than machines, as they teach coordination in using different body parts simultaneously.” Ideally, a professional will develop an individualized exercise plan for you.
- Sarcopenia is the age-related loss of muscle mass, strength and function. “If those people lose even 10% to 15% of lean mass, it’s still significant because they have low mass to begin with.” But lost muscle mass isn’t good for anyone, no matter your age. “Even when you’re relatively young, you feel so much older because you lose muscle mass so rapidly on these drugs,” Wenger said.
- How much is uncertain, but studies have indicated that anywhere between 15% to 60% of the weight people lose is lean muscle mass — meaning that if you shed 50 pounds, you will potentially be losing 7.5 to 30 pounds of your lean muscle. “Many patients underestimate their weakness when on these drugs until it shows up functionally, like when they’re going up the stairs,” said Dr.
- Wenger recommends eating an hour or two before exercising since GLP-1s slow digestion. “Eating too close to a workout may lead to bloating, nausea and cramping,” Wenger said, “particularly with moderate to high-intensity training.” Liquid snacks such as smoothies are best, he said, as they’re better tolerated than solid food.
- Regular movement is definitely important, said Stan Ward, senior personal training manager at fitness club Equinox, who is based in Plano, Texas. “Movement can be very productive for your energy levels, even if it’s low-level movement like walking or biking,” Ward said. “And make sure you’re getting adequate sleep.
- After your workout, refuel within 30 to 60 minutes, which is when your muscles will be ready to take in nutrients. “If your appetite is low, a protein shake or small snack with protein and carbs, such as Greek yogurt with fruit or chocolate milk, can be more manageable than a full meal,” Wenger said.
- Until then, make sure to incorporate strength training into your weekly exercise regimen — even if you’re not on a GLP-1. “Studies have shown your longevity and quality of life are all tied to muscle,” Ward said. “And if you increase your muscle mass, you’ll burn more calories, even at rest.
