# GLP-1 drugs and those who take them | Explainer

Zdroj: [https://www.chiefhealthcareexecutive.com/view/glp-1-drugs-and-those-who-take-them-che-explainer](https://www.chiefhealthcareexecutive.com/view/glp-1-drugs-and-those-who-take-them-che-explainer)

More Americans are turning to these drugs to lose weight, and a new RAND report sheds light on the patients using the medication.

- RAND engaged nearly 8,800 Americans in the survey in April and May of 2025.Here’s a quick rundown on Americans using GLP-1. (For leaders who are also readers, there’s more below the video.)The drugs are proving to be especially popular with women.
- GLP-1 drugs haven’t been around for all that long, but they have proven to be very popular with Americans struggling with their weight.Nearly 12% of Americans have taken GLP-1 drugs for weight loss, according to a new RAND report.
- But about nearly 9% said they had serious nausea, while 7.5% said they had serious levels of diarrhea.(This is one in a series of short videos and summaries designed to offer quick insights on healthcare topics.)
- Overall, 18.5% of Americans between 50 and 64 have tried GLP-1 drugs.Women between the ages of 30 and 49 were more likely to have used GLP-1 drugs, though they are less popular with younger Americans.
- About 74% of those surveyed say they do not plan to take GLP-1 drugs.A good number of those who have taken GLP-1 drugs say they have had some side effects, specifically with the GI system.
- The survey found 13.5% of men over the age of 65 have taken GLP-1 drugs, compared to 12.8% percent of women.It’s worth noting that many Americans say they aren’t on board.
- Overall, 11.2% of those between 30 and 49 have used the drugs.Among those over the age of 65, men are just a bit more likely to have used the drugs.
- More Americans are turning to these drugs to lose weight, and a new RAND report sheds light on the patients using the medication.
