# GLP-1 considerations for 2026: Your questions answered!

Zdroj: [https://www.mercer.com/en-us/insights/us-health-news/glp-1-considerations-for-2026-your-questions-answered/](https://www.mercer.com/en-us/insights/us-health-news/glp-1-considerations-for-2026-your-questions-answered/)

As employers prepare for their 2026 benefit decisions, one topic is on nearly everyone's radar: GLP-1 medications, especially those for weight loss.

- These programs vary widely: some focus on providing members with tools and coaching to succeed on their weight loss journey, regardless of medication use; others pair short-term GLP-1 therapy with deprescribing components once patients are deemed ready; some take over prescribing entirely, while others offer wraparound support services, leaving the prescribing function to primary care providers.
- It’s worth noting that what employers pay is usually far below the list price, thanks to negotiated rebates that PBMs pass back to them, but employers should definitely ask their PBMs how the direct-to-consumer options compare – they may be surprised to find out that their net of rebate price is comparable to, or even better than, the direct-to-consumer price.
- As the GLP-1 supply constraints experienced in 2023 and 2024 have resolved, PBMs are adjusting their strategies related to GLP-1s, in some cases offering savings opportunities for their clients and in other cases attempting to strengthen access through their pharmacy networks.
- Some employers that want to support their employees in purchasing GLP-1s but face budget constraints that prevent offering full coverage have explored contributing to lifestyle accounts or incentive HRAs that employees can use to buy GLP-1s directly from the manufacturer.
- Beyond weight loss, GLP-1s are currently approved for additional uses for people who have obesity, including Wegovy for cardiovascular risk reduction, Zepbound for sleep apnea, and Ozempic for slowing chronic kidney disease in people with Type 2 diabetes.
- While cost pressures are prompting some to consider removing coverage or requiring members to share more of the cost, targeting one particular category of drug for changes raises compliance and equity considerations that complicate such decisions.
- Some recent studies suggest GLP-1s are not cost-effective at their current prices, and increasing coverage could significantly raise overall spending, highlighting the challenge of balancing costs and benefits.
- The two manufacturers of GLP-1s for weight loss, Novo and Lilly, operate their direct-to-consumer pricing models differently, but in both cases, the prices are significantly lower than the standard list prices.
