# Tirzepatide Slows Kidney Decline in Prediabetes With Overweight or Obesity

Zdroj: [https://www.thecardiologyadvisor.com/news/tirzepatide-slows-kidney-decline-in-prediabetes-with-overweight-obesity/](https://www.thecardiologyadvisor.com/news/tirzepatide-slows-kidney-decline-in-prediabetes-with-overweight-obesity/)

Tirzepatide improves kidney outcomes among patients with prediabetes, overweight or obesity, and preserved estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), according to study results presented at the Amer

- The study authors concluded, “In SURMOUNT-1 participants with prediabetes, overweight or obesity, and preserved eGFR at baseline, use of [tirzepatide] was associated with an attenuated decline of eGFR over 3 years with a nonsignificant trend toward UACR reduction.” Disclosure: Some study authors declared affiliations with biotech, pharmaceutical, and/or device companies.
- The subset of patients with prediabetes at baseline underwent a 104-week extended follow-up. “In SURMOUNT-1 participants with prediabetes, overweight or obesity, and preserved eGFR at baseline, use of [tirzepatide] was associated with an attenuated decline of eGFR over 3 years with a nonsignificant trend toward UACR reduction.
- Tirzepatide improves kidney outcomes among patients with prediabetes, overweight or obesity, and preserved estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), according to study results presented at the American Diabetes Association’s 85th Scientific Sessions, held from June 20 to 23, 2025 in Chicago, IL.
- The decline in eGFR from baseline to week 176 was significantly slower with tirzepatide (mean difference [MD], -1.6 ml/min/1.73 m2) than with placebo (MD, -5.5 ml/min/1.73 m2), with an estimated treatment difference in eGFR deterioration of 3.9 ml/min/1.73 m2 (P <.001).
- The decline in UACR was numerically higher among tirzepatide recipients (MD, -15.8%) than placebo recipients (MD, -3.9%), but the estimated treatment difference of -12.4% did not reach significance (P =.078).
- The SURMOUNT-1 (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04184622) study was a randomized, phase 3 trial that recruited patients with a BMI of 27 kg/m2 and greater and weight-related comorbidities, excluding T2D.
- Previous studies have related tirzepatide use with improved eGFR and urine albumin-creatinine ratio (UACR) among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and overweight or obesity.
- In this post hoc analysis, the change in eGFR and UACR from baseline to week 176 was compared between patients who received any dose tirzepatide (n=762) or placebo (n=270).
