# What happens to your weight after quitting GLP-1 anti-obesity drugs?

Zdroj: [https://www.news-medical.net/news/20250723/What-happens-to-your-weight-after-quitting-GLP-1-anti-obesity-drugs.aspx](https://www.news-medical.net/news/20250723/What-happens-to-your-weight-after-quitting-GLP-1-anti-obesity-drugs.aspx)

A major meta-analysis finds that patients who discontinue anti-obesity medications quickly regain weight, yet, crucially, they still retain some of their original weight loss a year later, spotlightin

- They concluded that significant weight regain began eight weeks after stopping AOMs and continued through 20 weeks, particularly for individuals who had previously taken glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists or those who had experienced greater weight loss during treatment or ongoing lifestyle interventions.
- Image Credit: Caroline Ruda / Shutterstock In a recent review article published in the journal BMC Medicine, researchers systematically reviewed and analyzed randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to assess the effect of discontinuing anti-obesity medications (AOMs) on long-term weight changes.
- A major meta-analysis finds that patients who discontinue anti-obesity medications quickly regain weight, yet, crucially, they still retain some of their original weight loss a year later, spotlighting the challenges and promise of long-term obesity treatment.
- The authors note that these results contrast with previous research supporting the value of ongoing lifestyle intervention, and suggest that limited sample sizes, intervention heterogeneity, or study designs may have contributed to this unexpected finding.
- The review covered a range of medications, including six trials on GLP-1 receptor agonists, one on dual GLP-1/glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) agonists, one on orlistat, two on phentermine-topiramate, and one on naltrexone-bupropion.
- Concerns about discontinuing AOMs Obesity, affecting over 2.2 billion adults globally in 2020 and projected to rise to 3.3 billion by 2035, is linked to significant health risks, including some cancers, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes.
- About the review This meta-analysis was designed to address that gap by systematically evaluating the long-term effects of AOMs after treatment cessation, particularly the trajectory of weight changes in the weeks and months that follow.
- More long-term studies are needed to better understand weight regain and improve obesity treatment strategies.Journal reference: Trajectory of the body weight after drug discontinuation in the treatment of anti-obesity medications.
