# The U.S. needs a revolution to harness the potential of GLP-1s for weight loss

Zdroj: [https://www.statnews.com/2025/08/01/glp-1s-weight-loss-medication-ozempic-access-cost-medicare-medicaid/](https://www.statnews.com/2025/08/01/glp-1s-weight-loss-medication-ozempic-access-cost-medicare-medicaid/)

The introduction of the GLP-1 class of medications for weight loss has, to date, been one of the rockiest rollouts of a major medical advance in the United States.

- Against this backdrop, it’s a bit rich (pun intended) for Ricks to complain about telehealth/compounding pharmacies like Hims & Hers offering cheaper “backdoor generics” of GLP-1s. (Note to Congress: Rather than permitting the Food and Drug Administration to stop the work of compounding pharmacies on GLP-1s — a throttling that is now well underway — please devise a thoughtful generics strategy that prioritizes product availability, quality, patient safety, and an appropriate reward for innovator companies in equal measure.) Novo Nordisk was permitted to bombard the American public with TV ads for Wegovy for nine months before the medication’s supply shortage was deemed resolved by the FDA.
- Tighter oversight of manufacturers’ pricing policies and the competitive environment It’s unseemly (polite word choice) that the CEO of Lilly, Dave Ricks, is able to rake in total compensation of $114 million in 2024 while at the same time acknowledging that the price his company charges for Zepbound is “too high.” Unseemly, because his payday was fueled by Lilly making more than $10 billion in profit from GLP-1s in 2024 alone.
- A smarter approach by Congress Even well-intentioned senators like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, and Dick Durbin — who are doing a good initial job of digging into GLP-1 policy — may not fully grasp the systemwide, “whole of government” approach that is needed to harness this medical revolution in a way that puts patients, and patient safety, first.
- No (more) backsliding by commercial insurance plans GoodRx reports that tightening criteria in employer-sponsored insurance plans has disqualified an additional 5 million Americans from Zepbound coverage in 2025 vs. 2024 — and that analysis was done before the recent CVS Caremark decision to drop coverage for the drug starting in July.
- This strongly suggests that the Biden team was not up to speed on GLP-1s in the first place, and was instead myopically focused on “all things Ozempic” (the name frequently used in the media when referring to semaglutide for weight loss, though this is actually the drug’s brand name for its type 2 diabetes indication).
- But millions of Americans struggle with varying degrees of obesity, and the causes are diverse — yo-yo dieting strategies, challenges accessing healthy food at an affordable price, individual biological and genetic factors, how our brains are wired, and widespread mental health and substance abuse issues.
- GLP-1s are serious medications with certain potential toxicities for some patients, including pancreatitis, thyroid cancer, and — very rarely, but now officially acknowledged in the case of Wegovy — blindness, caused by a condition called non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION).
- That shined a spotlight on only one part of the problem — but it also smacked of congressional grandstanding and belated recognition. (Wegovy was approved by the FDA in 2021.) We need Congress to play a far more robust role in developing a multifaceted GLP-1 access strategy for the nation.
